if you ever decide to set out on a
google maps journey around north korea
you'll notice a long white rectangle
docked at the mount kung gung port
that's no super yacht or ship it's the
world's first
floating hotel
designed in sweden built in singapore
opened in australia
relocated to vietnam and then on to
north korea
the seven story hotel has traveled
around nine
thousand miles within a decade
[Music]
back in the early 80s a guy named doug
tarka
decided to bring tourists to townsville
australia
not far from the great barrier reef
tarka used to be a professional diver
and wanted to find the best way
to show the famous attraction to
tourists without harming the reef in any
way
tarka first started giving tours of the
reef in a catamaran with a glass bottom
then he decided to let them not just see
the reef
but stay on it in cruise ships moored
along the coast
that idea didn't work out since it was
too impractical
a few months later tarko went even
bigger
he set his sights on building the
world's first
floating hotel he was thinking of how to
bring the idea to life
when a swedish company contacted him
they specialized in floating dorms for
oil rigs
and the two agreed that the same
technology would be perfect for this
future
flotel design
check next step
construction that's where a company in
singapore came in
for a good 20 million dollars twice that
by today's raid
they build the innovative hotel but this
is where the ambitious project ran into
its first of
many problems because of some contract
issues
the delivery was delayed by over half a
year
unlike a cruise ship the floating hotel
couldn't move on its own
so when it was ready and all the hiccups
were resolved
a large heavy-lift ship towed it for its
first 2500 miles
all the way down to australia by that
time
word was already out
now there are all kinds of floating
hotels across the world these days
but remember we're talking about the 80s
man
this was the first of its kind and a
revolutionary idea
so people immediately went crazy booking
rooms months in advance
and chains were eager to manage it the
four seasons ended up winning that bid
and thus everything was ready for its
arrival
by early 1988 the john brewer reef
floating hotel
finally reached townsville six massive
anchors were used to hold it in place
it was supposed to be one of those
dream-like destinations you'd put on
your bucket list
[Music]
200 state-of-the-art bedrooms a 100-seat
theater
top class restaurants with the freshest
seafood
a helipad library game room
nightclub gym sauna
freshwater swimming pool and a floating
tennis court outside
and of course the main attraction would
be observing the great barrier reef
guests would head down from their rooms
for morning coffee in a panoramic
elevator
with views of the breathtaking spot then
they'd submerge deeper in a glass-bottom
submarine
or jump straight from a platform for a
casual swim
in the middle of the ocean those who
didn't fancy getting in the water
could just hang out in the underwater
viewing area inside the hotel
they could spend hours staring at
colorful corals
giant clams reef sharks blue starfish
and countless other fascinating marine
life
when that dream was just one step away
mother nature herself stepped in
and put a halt to the opening a tropical
storm moving
60 miles per hour blasted through the
area
it badly damaged the swimming pool sank
the underwater observatory
and ruined the guest shuttle boat
they managed to get things back to
normal quickly enough
but this delay cost the owners millions
winter would have been the perfect time
to open a hotel for guests from the
northern hemisphere
craving some sun in march 1988
the flotell finally opened with 85
percent of its rooms taken
a price tag of up to one thousand one
hundred dollars per bedroom a night
didn't scare away enthusiastic divers
they also had to pay an extra 120
for a 90-minute shuttle boat ride to the
hotel that was 40 miles off the shore
there was also a 20-minute helicopter
ride alternative
that cost twice as much even all that
money
wasn't enough to keep the hotel afloat
for long
the owners had to spend tons of cash on
keeping up with the environmental
standards in the reef area
they couldn't use regular cheaper paint
on the hull
all the waste was processed before
getting dumped miles away from the reef
all the trash had to be taken to the
mainland they even had to start a lab
for marine researchers
to make sure the hotel didn't do any
harm to seabirds
still all those efforts couldn't keep
the reef thriving forever
a large part of it had been eaten up by
starfish
every now and then bookings had to be
cancelled because of rough weather
the shuttle boats and helicopters
couldn't take guests through storms
those who made it to the hotel often
complained it didn't meet their
expectations
[Music]
some of them got seasick and others just
bored
once guests were done with scuba diving
and snorkeling
there wasn't much else to do on board
as one former staff member recalled even
pizzas flown in by helicopter
couldn't keep them happy and adequately
entertained
that and the splendor didn't last long
since the building was floating out in
the middle of nowhere your viewing
options were
the sea morsi and two more helpings of
yeah the sea in september 1988
when they thought things couldn't
possibly get any worse
some guests found one hundred thousand
pieces of old ammunition
while scuba diving two miles away from
the hotel
nothing could really make up for that
incident
even when they slashed the price for a
double room to 130 dollars per night
the occupancy stayed under 25 percent
the hotel owners were losing money like
crazy
so they decided to sell it to a japanese
company in 1989
the floater had hardly spent a year in
australia
and moved to ho chi minh city in the
south of vietnam
the country was going through a real
tourist boom at that time
but lacked luxurious accommodations for
foreign guests
when it arrived in vietnam after
traveling 3 000 miles
it was renovated to look more local and
got an updated name
the saigon floating hotel it became one
of the most popular nightlife spots in
the area
the new owners added new discos and 400
highly trained staff members kept the
rooms and facilities pristine and
comfortable
the hotel remained everyone's favorite
for over nine years
by 1997 more and more luxury hotels had
popped up in the ho chi minh area
foreign companies also built new hotels
that were just as cool
and expensive looking the japanese
owners of the floating hotel
tried to keep up with the new
competition for a couple more years
but alas they gave up
it was sold to hyundai assan a south
korean company doing investment projects
in the north
the hotel went on a short sentimental
trip to singapore for renovations
from there it moved to its new home in
the mount kumgang tourist region
in north korea once again it got a name
change
and became incredibly popular among both
north and south koreans
this was during a mutual tourism
experiment between the two
and many families even got to meet up
there after years of not seeing each
other
for eight years the hotel was
flourishing and became more popular than
ones in the capital
after all it was more modern and
comfortable
sure it lost its swimming pool and
tennis court but a new gaming house made
up for it
things were finally looking good for the
historic floating hotel
until 2008 that's when one
unfortunate incident ruined it all
all tours were immediately stopped it's
been sitting there
unused and rusting ever since
the country now has plans to bring
tourists back to the resort
sadly for probably the most unfortunate
hotel in the world
it'll unlikely live through that
renovation
it was dubbed poorly constructed
outdated
and with no national character
with its worn off paint and silent empty
rooms
the floating hotel once a revolutionary
idea with the whole world
on the edge of its seat with
anticipation
is now living its last days before it'll
be taken down